>> Melkey: With arrays,
they're fairly defined.
Then there's slices, okay?
And so the kind of two hand
definition of a slice is,
slices are dynamic arrays, all right?
So when you think of an array in Python,
that's kind of what a slice could be,
right?
And what's happening under
the hood is a slice is defined.
With a certain set size right,
that we don't define it.
The com,
the memory compiler understands it.
And then when we wanna add more
valleys to our slice, what's happening
is the Go compilr, Go code is actually
just doubling it every single time, okay?
So that's how it copies
that dynamic nature.
An array, it's very rigid, it's defined.
It can only hold five ints,
and that's all it could do.
And it's your choice to use them or not.
Whereas a slice, you can define it as
anything like it could be five slice,
it could be five values, and
you can append more to it.
You can continue to append to continuously
grow pros and cons arrays more
memory efficient, more memory, you know,
good for better for the memory
cuz the compound knows right away how
much allocate a slice changes on the fly.
So some key distinctions there.
And another definition of a slice is
a slice could be a slice of an array,
so a portion of the array, right?
If we defined our array as the full five
slot, a slice could be a portion there,
or in some cases, could be the entire
thing that you wanna make more dynamic.
Let me show you an example.
So above,
we have our numbers array, right?
We can have something like all numbers.
We have a short form notation.
We can say numbers with this syntax here.
This is basically saying we are making
a slice copy of our numbers array,
and now we have all numbers, okay?
So at this point in time, all numbers and
numbers are both data structures
that are hold five integers,
10, 20, 30, 40, and 50, okay?
The key difference, however, with all
numbers slice is now we can append
more values to it, and we do not
adhere to the constraint of the array.
You can also do this a little
bit more explicitly,
with first three as numbers, and we can
just bring in the first three values,
so we can index the zeroth
to the third value here.
And this is how it's like
a slice of the array.
It's like a portion of the array
that we're going to use, okay.
And so
we can have different methods on it.
We can do all numbers.
And you can even see here we're
getting this nice little hint for
all numbers right with this append key
function here which if you notice if I
type in numbers does not exist at all,
okay?
Arrays do not have the ability
to have values appended to them.
Slices can, and
what's happening under the hood?
Don't fully call me on this, but depending
on how much size being allocated to
the slice, Go is going to double it
in size every single time, right?
So if you want a slice of three and
it starts off as a slice of two,
goes gonna double it.
So your slice is gonna
have a capacity of four.
And next we add two more values, gonna
double it and continue so forth and so
forth, yeah?
>> Student: Is it like a linked list or
something,
or is it actually just creating
a new array with twice the capacity?
>> Melkey: It's creating a new
array of voice capacity.
Check these things out.
This is a really good case of a slice.
However, I think a more practical,
less like, I'm gonna teach
you something course feature of slices
is using them as dynamic arrays.
Okay, so for example,
let's say we have this fruit slice.
The syntax to declare your own slice is
very similar to the syntax to declare
your own array with the square brackets,
but this time, that's it string like so.
So the key difference is we do not have
the capacity in the notation here,
it is just indicating to go.
Then now this is going to be
a slice instead of a rigid array.
This, again, I was saying this pros and
cons to this right memory
allocation speed but
see how it is with more of the use
case that those data structures offer.
If you know the size of the data be
handling is going to be five and
is no need to use a slice, use an array.
Makes more sense you don't lose anything.
If you know your data could be growing,
shrinking, going diagonal, I don't know,
use a slice or yeah, use a slice.
The other one use an array.
For fruits, we can have apple, banana,
and I don't know, strawberry, right?
So now we have our
defined slice of fruits.
We can do format, print F,
these are my fruits.
Modulo V, break the line and
type in fruits, right?
You can see now we have apple, banana,
strawberry, which is great for a smoothie.
But now we can explore some built
in methods that really give a good
appeal to two slices, right?
So here we can do something like fruits,
and
we can use the built in keyword append.
So if you wanna append something
to a slice, you have to do append,
then the existing slice as it is, as
the first argument to the append function,
and then the value you
wantna append to it.
So let's say I want to append a kiwi.
This is great, this works if I now print
that same these are my fruits with kiwi.
You can see now we have apple, banana,
strawberry kiwi because
we've appended to it.
We can look at more things.
You can actually go a little bit more
intricate with the append method.
So we have like append fruits and
you can append like a bunch
of different things too.
There's not gonna be just one.
You can put like mango, pineapple, right?
So from like a use case perspective, it's
very convenient with more fruits, right?
But under the hood, like what's happening
with the append function is like,
we take the size of the fruits array
as is, we look at how many things we're
appending into this append function, and
then we either create the new slice,
or we use the existing one with
the existing capacity, right?
So now, if we just run this,
we can see now we have apple, banana,
strawberry, kiwi, mango,
pineapple, we got all of them.
And you can even append
two slice together.
You can have, like, more fruits,
do the same syntax right here,
string, I actually don't
even know blueberries.
What's another fruit, tomato.
And then you can do fruits,
append fruits and then more fruits.
And you can also append it
with this syntax here for
using all of the fruits
in the more fruit slice.
And if you run this, yeah.
>> Student: Does each
append create a new slice?
>> Melkey: No, not necessarily,
like I said earlier, so we're,
what happens under the hood
with slices in particular,
Go will double the size of the slice.
So if you go from a size of two,
you double it, it becomes four.
If you wanna append one method to it, you
will append it to the newest one, right?
So now you have three values and
you have this open size under
the hood open size of your slice.
So if you add one more value,
it becomes fully four.
But if you add more,
that slice then gets doubled to eight, and
you can add up to four new values
before it gets doubled again.
One thing I want to show also, before we
move on to maps here is, we have arrays,
right, or a slice.
Let's just go with the arrays.
Our numbers are if you go back,
it's 10, 20, 30, 40, 50.
When I showed you the first for
loop with for i equals zero and
the condition of increment it,
that works great.
But if you wanna iterate through like
a range or iterate through us a for
loop, a slice an array,
you can do something using the for
loop you can do for index and then value.
In range, so
the range keyword numbers, okay?
And this is just a short form notation to
iterate through all the values in an array
or a slice or any kind of object, right?
And you can also do format print F.
This is, or if you just say index,
module D, and value, the modulo D.
>> Melkey: That's right, so
we have index 0, 1, 2, 3,
4, 5 with the value associated to it.